Today's video is sponsored by keeps you know,
that two out of every three guys will experience some form of male pattern
boldness by the time they're 35 while I know it for me,
it was more like 25. Irish keeps have been around when I was younger,
because advancements in science have meant that there are now treatments that
can combat the symptoms of hair loss and help you keep the hair that
you have.
Look, my hair is not coming back, but you didn't have to be like me.
You can stop your hair loss.
Thanks to keeps keeps off as generic versions of the only two FDA approved drugs
for the treatment of hair loss. So you may have had them before,
but never at a price this low that's right.
If you are thinking this is some sort of medical thing, Simon,
it's gonna be mad, expensive, where you couldn't be more wrong.
Keep starts at just $10 per month. And how does it work? Well for one thing,
there's no need to visit a doctor's office.
Just have an online consult it's very quick.
And a while later it discrete package arrives at your door and you can use it in
the privacy of your own. So if you're noticing that you are losing your hair,
that's one thing that you can fix.
So do something about it for a limited time,
just go to keeps.com/biographics zero at 50% off your first order.
And now today's video.
From 1976 to 1983, Argentina was ruled by a military dictatorship,
a Kuta of the three commanders in chief from the three national branches of the
armed forces during its first years,
the military fought a war against its own people,
a conflict characterized by assassinations, kidnappings and torture.
It was a war which not even the most innocent was safe.
This was Argentina's dirty war at the helm of the hun.
Ultimately accountable for his worst crimes was one man somber or
steer enigmatic and conflicted in his motivations,
but ultimately ruthless in his decision making. This was the general,
the president and defacto military dicta of one of the worst regimes in south
America. Jorge Raphael Dela.
Jorge Raphael Videla was born on August the second, 1925 in Mercedes Argentina.
His father was Raphael Videla in army. He major, and his mother was AGA Redondo.
They named then born after his older brothers twins, Jorge and Rael,
who had been born in 1922 and died one year later due to a measles outbreak.
The young Vidala spent his formative years in the well to-do middle class,
provincial Milo.
It was a childhood shaped by the Auste military values of his father and the CA
ethnic piety of his affectionate mother. Jorge shared these religious values,
serving with enthusiasm as an alt boy in the Mercedes cathedral in 1942,
before finishing secondary school,
Jorge Raphael expressed his wishes to enlist in the military academy and follow
his father's footsteps. Young Videla was a quiet Auste and morally upright boy.
The life in uniform already appeared to him to be the only way he could live and
interact with the wider world. Despite some objections from his father,
Jorge enlisted in the academy, and in 1944,
he graduated as a second lieutenants in the infantry. In the meantime,
Argentina had experienced one, many military cos in July, 1943,
the group of United officers had seized power.
The military cabinet included an ambitious Colonel Juan Perran in charge of the
ministry of national labor after suffering some setbacks,
including incarceration.
Perran won the presidential elections on June the fourth, 1946,
flying among his charismatic second wife Avita. Yes, the one from the musical.
He gave rise to the movement that took his name. Paramo.
This movement had many intellectual contradictions,
which would later erupt into opposing factions.
It was based on a strong cult of personality surrounding Juan and David Vita,
who appealed to the lower classes by running strong welfare programs.
Policy Perran is cold war era government sought a third position that aligns
underneath the capitalism nor communism yet at the same time,
Perran had a fascination with European fascism offering shelter to many former
Nazi war criminals.
Young officer VII had apparently no interest in political matters at this stage
and was more focused on building his family in 1948.
Viola married Alicia Hartridge daughter of an ambassador who was often
speculated to have been his one and only girlfriends.
The couple would go on to have six children.
Two of whom would join the military.
Another son Alejandro suffered from Oli free, near a severe learning disability.
Alejandro was ultimately educated by two French nuns,
Rene and Alice Moine.
The sisters took good care of the boy helping his development and teaching him
how to read in 1957.
President Huper on had been ousted by yet another co and was living in exile
with his third wife, Maria Ella Martinez, better known as Isabel.
Ella was rising in his military career.
He detains the rank of major and worked in Washington.
DC is a delegate to the Inter-American defense board or IDB.
This institution was designed to coordinate the militaries of the Americas in an
anti communist function over the next 10 years. The quiet,
but rigorous officer went from strength to strength.
He secured a senior post at the department of defense directed the military
academy and return to Washington to define the mental strategy of the IDB,
but a relatively quiet and productive decade would soon clash with the chaos
brought about by the 1970s
In 1971,
J became general vial appointed by Argentina's military dictator,
a Alejandro LA two years later, he was promoted again,
serving as chief of staff at the army that same month by popular demand.
Laus seeded power to a resurgent. Juan Perran with wife,
Isabelle as vice presidents. This term was shortlived on July. The first 1954,
president Juan Dominga Perran died of a heart attack.
Opening another Pandora's box of tumultuous,
a Tinian politics vis the army inherited a nation in chaos.
Here is the situation in simplistic terms.
Power was seized by ISAB Perran supported by her minister of social welfare in
chief advisor missed de Lopez Rega.
This duo had many political opponents including left wing Perus who had
organized the Monera gorilla movement.
They were not the only left leaning armed group in action.
There was also the E R P or people's Republican army Marxist
Gus gorilla group funded by Castro's Cuba during 19 7 4 in 1975.
Both groups carried out spectacular attacks,
often resorting to terrorist methodologies. For example, in October of 1975,
Monteiro commander hijacked a plane and flew to for moer on the border with
Paraguay taking dozens of hostages, they then assaulted an American barracks,
killing 12 soldiers and looting the armory.
The commander rushed back to the Hyrax Blain and flew to safety in Santa Fe,
700 kilometers south of OSA.
The ER P from their side conducted a bit of gorilla warfare in the Tuka command
province in Northern Argentina while conducting several assassinations in
kidnappings all around the country.
The Mons NES and the ER P were opposed by a third faction,
the triple Argentinian anti communist Alliance.
This was a terrorist group funded,
alarmed by none other than Isabelle Peron's chief advisor,
Mr. Reer admits the chaos.
The military tried to maintain order fighting everything.
And everybody Videla in particular was worried about the increasing paramilitary
power of the anti-communist Alliance. So with backing from his board,
its Videla pressured is R Perran into naming him as commander in chief of the
army. In this role,
Videla reorganized the high echelons of the armed forces eliminating all
officers deemed too friendly to parm Vi's heavy handed tactics and du command
virtually eliminated the ER P's profile in the ongoing conflict,
but other factions still remains powerful. Moreover, the R Argentinian economy,
he was in shambles as Isabelle Peron's government failed to curb a 300%
per year inflation rate.
Many high ranking officers began conspiring against the president and VE was one
of them.
Vid believed that support for president Perran was strong enough to grant a new
election in late 1975. He openly admitted to his contacts in Washington,
that he was preparing plans for a military takeover of the government,
but a CIA report identified him as the voice of patients curing his subordinates
enthusiasm, who thirsted for a co immediately.
Finally VI Ella led a bloodless co in the night between the 23rd and the 24th of
March in 1976. A military hunter took power,
which held on for seven years until 1983.
The hunter included medal is the new president and representative of the army
general Ramona Gasti represented the air force and Admiral Eduard Maira
the Navy in his official address to the nation president Videla declared the
armed forces,
realizing that the current state of affairs could not offer an acceptable future
for the country have produced the only possible answer to this crucial situation
as the defacto dictator of Argentina of Videla quickly dissolved Congress,
handing over legislative functions to a nine member commission,
he then forbade all democratic political activities,
suspending civilian courts and banning political parties.
He also put a stop on all trade union activity,
putting the general Confederation of labor under strict military control
Videla and friends exercised tight censorship on any media or cultural product,
which did not sit well with the ultranationalist and ultra conservative
agenda. For instance,
the sky of Wey Aries became darked by the smoke of burning books.
Buner called the set of measures, a process of national reorganization.
Some sectors of AIAN society welcomes the co as an antidote to the rampant,
chaos and economic instability that had marked the last prime administration.
But it was no secret that the re respect of human rights was nobody's priority.
CIA reports from this period also raised some concerns while still acknowledging
the net of the Hunter's Triver of Videla was the most levelheaded one U
intelligence described him as a professional soldier of unquestioned integrity,
a strict moralist of the old school at about Roman Catholic,
his hatred of corruption and his religious devotion legendary in Argentina,
a CIA brief of April, 1976,
highlighted a rift within the military government on one corner that was
president Ello and his confidant army chief of staff general by on the opposite
corner was air force general a go and admir in general,
these hard liners were trying to force general Ella to take a tougher stand on
the subversion of leftist gorillas and their sympathizers who were still quite
active. More than 70 policemen had been killed by the ER P or the Monte Nero.
Since the takeover, the response of the hunter was brutal.
The hundreds of gorilla fighters were killed or arrested even when the threat
was almost eradicated, the ever present security forces were still abducting,
alleged dissidents for questioning or worse.
Messa and agai were also concerned.
The Videla was seeking a reconciliation with theist faction,
which was somewhat true.
Some of Videla subordinates were in fact coordinating with Peronist labor and
political leaders to build a common base,
popular support for the new government,
rather than ousting Videla mess Sarah and the hard liners focused instead on
removing his moderate advisors,
president Videla while apparently not 100% agreeing with brutal repression
eventually endorsed it in order to stay in power.
And to keep one hand on the wheel in the following years,
anyone suspected of leftist, pist sympathies, as well as factory workers,
trade union students, professors, intellectuals, journalists, entrepreneurs,
social workers, even members of the clergy.
Everybody could fall how of the country's new death squads.
And this was the start of the dirty war.
Death squads began traveling the streets at night.
They were composed of young soldiers,
airmen or sailors dressed in jeans and leather jackets.
Nick keister of the BBC recalls how one of the death squads in invaded his
sister-in-law's family home at 2:00 AM in-law was only 20 at the time.
And her gorilla actions consisted of talking politics at Sunday, lunch,
distributing pamphlets and writing graffiti.
Once she in her terrorist cell had attacked a nurse in the street resulting in
no injury in Custer's retelling the death squad could not find this dangerous
rebel, unbeknownst to them. She had already left the country.
The captain of the squad did not hide what would be her destiny.
I can see you are nice people, Madam,
but we know your daughter is in with the gorilla. If we find her, you know,
what is going to happen,
and most people did know dissenters were abducted and imprisoned without
trial and incarcerated in one of 520 detention and torture centers throughout
Argentina, the most informa ones were the ESMA,
the school of mechanical engineering of the Navy and prison.
The majority of those who walked through those gates never returned.
They simply disappeared.
That's how Argentinians used to call them lost Des Paris CDOs,
the mothers of the disappeared to began staging silent protests in the central
Plaza, Dem Aries.
They were the Marre di Plaza am Mayo later to be joined by the ABUS or the
grandmothers. Their activism demanded answers from the government,
focusing on the truth surrounding the fate of their children. In most cases,
it was a truth to ruthless to imagine the suspected enemies of the state were
subjected to atrocious torches, regardless of their age,
gender common technique was to tie prisoners to a metal structure,
such as a bed frame and run a strong electric current through their bodies.
If jailers felt particularly sadistic, they connected the electrodes,
the victim's genital and,
and laughed how the victim jumped up and down on the bed frame shaken by
uncontrolled spasms of pain. In many cases,
the electric shocks were administered by a cattle product.
Yuko Bowman renowned editor of the newspaper lap in Yong was tortured in such a
way. Luckily he survived. He later revealed how during his captivity,
one of the torturers that clarified their ideology to him,
Argentina has three main enemies.
Karl marks because he tried to destroy the Christian concept of society,
Sigman Freud,
because he tried to the Christian concept of the family and Albert Einstein,
because he tried to destroy the Christian concept of time and space
For all their declared love of Christian values.
The military hunters earned its minions,
showed little respect for members of the clergy for on may the 23rd, 1976,
a military squad arrested two priests, Orlando, Oreo, and Francisco, Alex.
They were tortured for months and eventually freed during their detention.
Their provincial superior,
a 41 year old Jesuit pleaded with general Videla and admir Massira for their
freedom receiving only empty promises in return after their release.
The Jesuit made sure that the two priests left the country and offered shelter
to other clergymen and lay people persecuted by the regime. Well,
that Jesuit's name was Jorge Burgle. Now known as Pope Francis.
The first other priests were not as lucky is fathers Yao.
And ya on July the 18th, 1976,
the regime kidnapped and merged in a different pair of young priests who had
spoken out against the hunter. Four days later,
Bishop on Angela denounced the killers in a homily.
He invited good Christians to forgive them, but to seek the truth. Nonetheless,
on the 4th of August,
Bishop and Lee died in a very suspicious car crash decades later,
it was revealed to be an assassination more than one year later on December the
eighth, 1977,
the death squads abducted two nuns who worked in the deprived areas of Buenos
areas. They were taken to SMA beaten, tortured,
and photographed with a flag of the Monte neuro insurgents.
This was to provide some sort of justification for their incarceration.
Their real crime had been to help up the Madre to Plaza de Mayo for the quest
for answers. Those two nuns were not even AIAN nationals. They were French.
Their names were Rene Le Dre and Alice de more.
The very same women who had looked after president Ella's son,
not so many years earlier,
according to biographers Maria C and been sending ALA over Videla was to
where that the two sisters were in the grasp of the tortures.
And what did he do? Nothing. Sister,
Renee and sister Alice suffered the same faces.
Thousands of other enemies of the hunter.
Every brutal regime has its own methods of mass murder, gas,
forced labor firearms, or even just clubs and machetes.
In the case of the Argentinian hunter, it was by gravity. Fidel's minions,
loaded special cargo flights. With hundreds of passengers,
they'd been stripped naked bound, hooded and sedated with penit.
The planes took off flying over the Ry of the Rio de LA platter,
where the river meets the Atlantic ocean.
Then the plane doors opened and the prisoners were dropped from a height of
hundreds of feet. These were the of Wellers Del the flights of death.
Some of the victims may have died immediately.
Others may have survived the initial impact with their bones shattered only to
drown immediately. Afterwards decades later,
the regime admitted to killing between 7,000 and 9,000 dissidents,
but the mares and other humanitarian sources claim that the number is really
between 12,000 and 30,000 and the dirty war was responsible for another type of
victim between 1976 and 1983,
the Argentinian military kidnapped between 400 and 500 babies born in captivity
to incarcerated dissidents, according to British journalist,
Christopher Hitchen.
Some of those children may have been born after their mother had been raped by
the wardens.
These babies were then given couples with ties to the military as adopted
children.
Most of them grew up without knowing their real origins who their parents were
and whether or not they were still alive decades later,
only 109 of these children were able to trace their origins.
In addition to pointing internal threats, real imagined,
Videla had to deal with a collapsing economy and rampant inflation.
His government was ill suited to economic matters and they made things worse.
Videla and his minister of the economy,
ho Jose Martinez DHAs favorite foreign investment from private corporations
while incentivizing foreign trade. As a result,
local industrial output and infrastructure greatly declined at the same time,
the inflation skyrocketed and so did foreign debt in matters of foreign policy.
Videla sought to cement relationships with other right wing regimes in south
America. Back in March of 1976, when the hunter had taken power,
the CIA first heard reports of operation condo. This was, uh,
cooperative efforts by the intelligence and security services of several Latin
American countries to combat terrorism and subversion participant states
included Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Ecuador, Paraguay, Peru, and UA.
This plan became formalized only in may of night, 56, 2 months later,
the member states had agreed to take executive actions,
even outside their respective borders to strike at terrorist dissident leaders,
residing abroad,
according to a declassified 1976 FBI report condo included a secret
program called phase three,
the formation of special teams of assassins with a mandate to murder subversive
enemies, anywhere in the world.
While the CIA did not take part in the formation of condo,
they were fully aware of it and even provided some assistance. For example,
helped set up computerized links among the intelligence units of the condo
member states.
There's also evidence that security personnel of the us embassy in bueno airs
cooperated with Argentinian secret services in at least one condo operation
theor arrest of Chile dissidents, Jorge Isaac wanes,
the Argentinian and Chile regimes surely cooperated counterinsurgency matters,
but their relationship soured in November, 1978.
This is when border disputes threatened to escalate into full scale war Jorge
Raphaella versus Chile dictator Augusto pinache that would've been an
interesting match. The dispute was about ownership of three islands.
Pickton Lennox and wave located in the or channel of ti Wago.
Whichever country controlled them could extend their exclusive economic zone 200
miles into the south Atlantic,
according to international maritime law negotiation stalled in both countries
mobilized for full on war, which was avoided at the last minute,
thanks to the intervention of the Vatican recently elected Pope jumble, thei,
and I Cardinal Samora, who landed in Buer is on Christmas day.
The first Naval squadrons were just about to engage in combat in the beagle
channel.
The negotiations dragged on for seven years before chili and Argentina finally
made peace. But for the moments an opened conflict, been averted,
Messi and de Augusti rumbled in the backgrounds.
They believed that Ella stands against chili had been too moderate.
They were also displeased with the osteo economic policies imposed by Vi's
economy minister, which were badly needed,
but they were ultimately too little too late. According to the CIA report,
the military was again conspiring against Ella in may of 1980 in 1981,
maybe sensing a counter co Videla agreed to hand over power to his deputy and
confidants general. Roberta Viola VO was succeeded by vice Admiral ACOs,
then general the upholder gout air, the newcomer,
willing to rally internal descent against an external foe put into action of
plan that had been conceived earlier by the Videla administration.
The invasion of the S islands,
the defeat at the hands of the UK in June of 1982,
precipitated the fall of GDI area into the eventual end of the regime.
By 1983, democracy had been restored to Argentina,
New president RA Hanson ensured that Videla and the hunter were tried for their
crimes. More precisely.
The allegations were for a total of 504 kidnapping acts of torture, robbery,
slave labor, and the abduction of babies. In December of 1985,
the once all powerful ex generaler Videla received a life sentence to be served
at a military prison.
This was a life sentence that turned out to only last five years in 1990 Videla
was freed on orders of president Karl manna,
who had granted general amnesty on the basis of a controversial law known as
final points or full stop.
Jorge Rae ELA kept a low profile for the ensuing years,
but few were happy with his new frown freedom.
One of those is Spanish judge za Garza.
He reasons the state terrorism crimes had no statute of limitations and the
prosecution of crimes against humanity had universal jurisdiction.
He started investigating Videla, but Argentina would not extradite him.
Thanks to his pressure though.
Another investigation against the former dictator had gun from J to October of
1998, viz was tried for a crime, which had been previously overlooked one,
which did not benefit from the earlier political amnesty.
The kidnapping of babies,
the decision was carried out by federal judge Markovich.
Following allegations brought together by the ABUS Plaza de Mayo,
the grandmothers of Plaza Mayo Videla did not only that there was a systematic
plan to kidnap babies and give them up for adoption.
What he commented about the babies and their mothers was only that the mothers
were active militants within the terrorist machine.
And many of them used their fetus as human shields while being combatants.
The retired general was found guilty, but only spent one month in jail.
At this point, he was in his seventies.
So it was granted home imprisonment Videla was involved in yet another legal
proceeding in April of 2001. In this case,
judge can Keber Caral founds that operation condo was a criminal organization.
So he subpoenaed Videla to be tried as a member of a criminal organization,
but the crafty Videla was able to delay his appearance for two years,
utilizing technicality after technicality. Then in 2003,
another co happens not Secar,
but ADAT arch per president nest Urner campaigns that the previous
amnesty of 1990 should be ruled as unconstitutional.
It took some time for the Supreme court to agree to the decision,
but eventually in 2008 Videla was incarcerated. Again,
he awaited trial for three years at the camper, Dubai military base,
although while protesting his treatment and declaring himself to be a political
prisoner. Finally in February of 2011, the trial began Videla ends.
The other high ranking officials were charged with the abduction of hundreds of
infants in July of 2012, the final verdict was issue.
The tribunal found proved that the abduction of infants was a systematic and
widespread practice to abduct detain and hide children. Under 10 years of age,
within the context of a general plan of an iation Jorge Videla was found guilty
and sentenced to 50 years to be served in a civilian prison.
But the time of trials was still not over for the old death spot. Next,
he was to be judged his participation operation Conor,
but this time he found a way out the courthouse on may the 12th, 2013,
the elderly Videla slipped while taking a shower in the Marco PAs prison on the
16th of 8:25 AM. He was found dead in his cell.
The autopsy found that he had died of an internal hemorrhage caused by the
earlier fall.
JGE AR Videla was the visible face of mil rule during Argentina's dirty war.
But to this day, his motivations remain hard to decipher declassified,
CIA reports,
express concerns over the excesses of the hunter and seemed to place hope on his
stabilizing influence.
He appeared to seek a reconciliation with the Peronist factions,
at least at the start of the regime.
And yet he seemed to endorse and enforced terrorist tactics.
He was a man of faith and maintained a good relationship with the Batan,
but he did not lift a finger to protect priests and nuns detained at the SMA.
During his years under arrest, Videla eventually confessed to his crimes.
He did admit that some actions of the hunter bordered on the horrific,
but he also justified them as acts of war against a gorilla
insurgency and perhaps most significantly he never expressed remorse
for what he did. So I really hope you found that video. Interesting. If you did,
please do that thumbs up bottom below. Don't forget to subscribe and as always,
thank you for watching.
<Silence>.